This this does not make me happy.
This is very concerning. Uh here is a
survey from good folks at HubSpot of 211
senior marketing leaders and 107
marketing practitioners
uh done this year. So 318 total people,
60% of whom said that their top website
priority for the next year is increasing
traffic.
Friends, I I don't know how to make this
message more clear to you. Traffic
opportunity is dropping dramatically. It
has been dropping the last four years.
Traffic is a vanity metric. growing it
is unlikely to help your business
compared to many other marketing things
you could do. If your boss, your team,
your client is telling you that you need
to drive more traffic to the website,
you need to have the hard conversation
with them about why that is both much
more challenging than it's ever been in
the past and much less likely to produce
the kinds of bottom line results that
you want.
You cannot be measuring the success of
your job based on overall traffic
growth. Lead generation, conversion
rates,
those are fine. Search engine result
rankings for a variety of zeroclick
reasons probably much less useful.
Landing and product page views are not a
terrible metric. Weirdly, weirdly, this
is a fine metric in my opinion because I
believe that all the brand things that
you're going to do at the top of the
marketing funnel, right? Be in the
places where your audience pays
attention, even if you're not driving
the click back to your website, that
should drive the right people back to
your landing and product pages. Let's
let's just walk through a little example
together. So, imagine that you're in the
real estate industry, right? and and so
you're trying to attract home buyers to
your website and then they're going to
use your software or your products or
whatever to to um buy their house. So,
steps to take when buying houses.
Frequent search done here. And look, you
know, th this is just this is not this
is going to answer the user's search
query very comprehensively
and then it's going to take you to
YouTube where you can watch a a a clever
video, right, about this and it is not
going to send traffic to your website,
whether you're Nerd Wallet or
Investopedia or Business Insider. And if
you're a private company th those
publishers, right, are taking the
traffic and so is Reddit, right, which
is a very popular place. In fact, I
looked for people who search for
first-time home buyer in Spark Toro and
you can see you can see what's going on.
First off, diminishing search demand
over time. And second, these people are
in uh platforms like like Reddit where
millions of people are going and
consuming content on the platform. they
are not going to go to your website
driving traffic to your site versus
being a helpful useful resource in these
places, right? Contributing to these
subreddits, potentially starting your
own uh getting into those YouTube
channels, right? Getting mentioned by
those folks, advertising in those
places, like those are going to bring
you the brand attention that you used to
get from just publishing on your site
and getting the traffic to your own
domain. And it it worries me a lot to
see traffic growth and increasing
traffic as as the metrics and the goals.
That was a reasonable thing to do 10
years ago, maybe even five years ago,
but this is 2025, friends. This is we're
living in a zero-click universe. The the
only way to succeed is is to reject
these. You you need to have these
conversations. I I can't do it for you.
What I what I can do is give you the
tools and the data and the resources to
arm you for that conversation. But but
you're going to have to you got to bring
it to your boss, man. [laughter] It's
it's going to be Look, I recognize that
this is this is a challenging time to be
going through. There's a lot of pressure
on marketers to perform. There's people
claiming that AI is going to take your
job.
AI is going to take your opportunity to
get search traffic. It it has done that
the last five years. is going to keep
doing it. The way to keep your job is to
make these metrics make sense for what
the business really wants to accomplish,
which is almost certainly more
customers, more sales, more revenue, not
more traffic.